## 14.6.1 Install a Binary Crate from crates.io
You can use the `cargo install` command to install a binary crate from [crates.io](https://crates.io/). This is not meant to replace system packages; it is intended as a convenient way for Rust developers to install tools shared by others.

Its limitation is that it can only install crates that have a binary target. A binary target is an executable program, produced by a crate that has `src/main.rs` or is otherwise configured as a binary crate.

Since there is the concept of a binary target, there is also the concept of a library target. A library target cannot be run by itself.

Usually, the `README.md` file contains a description of the crate and tells you whether the crate has a library target, a binary target, or both.

## 14.6.2 `cargo install`
Binary files installed by `cargo install` are placed in the `bin` folder under the home directory.

If you installed Rust with the default `rustup` configuration, the binary directory is `$HOME/.cargo/bin`.

To make programs installed by `cargo install` directly executable, you need to make sure that directory is in the `$PATH` environment variable.

For example, in Chapter 12 we mentioned the Rust implementation of the `grep` tool, called `ripgrep`, which is used to search files. To install `ripgrep`, we can run:
```text
$ cargo install ripgrep
    Updating crates.io index
  Downloaded ripgrep v13.0.0
  Downloaded 1 crate (243.3 KB) in 0.88s
  Installing ripgrep v13.0.0
......
   Compiling ripgrep v13.0.0
    Finished release [optimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 3m 10s
  Installing ~/.cargo/bin/rg
   Installed package `ripgrep v13.0.0` (executable `rg`)
```
Some output has been omitted, but this is roughly what it looks like. The penultimate line shows that the program was installed at `~/.cargo/bin/rg`.

In the terminal, use `echo $PATH` to check whether this directory is in the environment variable.

## 14.6.3 Extending Cargo with Custom Commands
Cargo is designed so that it can be extended with subcommands.

For example, if a binary in `$PATH` is named `cargo-something`, you can run it with `cargo something`, treating it as if it were a Cargo subcommand.

When you run `cargo --list`, custom commands like this are also listed. Being able to install extensions with `cargo install` and then run them like built-in Cargo tools is a very convenient benefit of Cargo’s design.
