**If you find this helpful, please like, bookmark, and follow. To keep learning along, follow this series.**
## 7.3.1 `super`
We can access items in a parent module’s path by using `super` at the start of a path, just like using `..` syntax to start a file-system path. For example:
```rust
fn deliver_order() {}

mod back_of_house {
    fn fix_incorrect_order() {
        cook_order();
        super::deliver_order();
    }

    fn cook_order() {}
}
```
Of course, you can use an absolute path to achieve the same result:
```rust
fn deliver_order() {}

mod back_of_house {
    fn fix_incorrect_order() {
        cook_order();
        crate::deliver_order();
    }

    fn cook_order() {}
}
```

## 7.3.2 `pub struct`
If you put the `pub` keyword before `struct`, the struct becomes public, as shown below:
```rust
mod back_of_house {
	pub struct Breakfast {
		toast: String,
		seasonal_fruit: String,
	}
}
```
Note that although this struct is public, **the fields inside a struct are private by default**, unless you add the `pub` keyword.

In Rust, **in most cases** if something does not have `pub`, then it is private. (Special cases will be discussed later.)

Making a field public is also simple. Here is the code after changing `toast` in `Breakfast` to public:
```rust
mod back_of_house {
	pub struct Breakfast {
		pub toast: String,
		seasonal_fruit: String,
	}
}
```

Let’s look at a more complex example:
```rust
mod back_of_house {
    pub struct Breakfast {
        pub toast: String,
        seasonal_fruit: String,
    }

    impl Breakfast {
        pub fn summer(toast: &str) -> Breakfast {
            Breakfast {
                toast: String::from(toast),
                seasonal_fruit: String::from("peaches"),
            }
        }
    }
}

pub fn eat_at_restaurant(){
    let mut meal = back_of_house::Breakfast::summer("Rye");
    meal.toast = String::from("Wheat");
}
```
- On top of the struct, we define an associated function `summer`, whose parameter is the string slice `toast` and whose return value is `Breakfast`. The value of `Breakfast.toast` will be the value of that argument, and the value of `Breakfast.seasonal_fruit` will be set to `peaches`. In essence, `summer` is a constructor that creates an instance of `Breakfast`.
- In the `eat_at_restaurant` function, we first use a relative path to call `summer` and construct an instance, then assign it to the mutable variable `meal`. The `toast` field in `meal` is set to `Rye`, and `seasonal_fruit` is `peaches` as written in the constructor. On the next line, because the `Breakfast` struct is public, `meal.toast` can be modified directly, and here it is changed to `Wheat`.

Would writing `meal.seasonal_fruit = String::from("buleberries");` inside the `eat_at_restaurant` function cause an error? The answer is yes, because **fields inside a struct are private by default**. `seasonal_fruit` was not declared public, so external code cannot modify it, and this line attempts to modify it, which causes an error.

## 7.3.3 `pub enum`
Just like `struct`, an enum also becomes public if you add the `pub` keyword. For example:
```rust
mod back_of_house {
    pub enum Appetizer {
        Soup,
        Salad,
    }
}

pub fn eat_at_restaurant() {
    let order1 = back_of_house::Appetizer::Soup;
    let order2 = back_of_house::Appetizer::Salad;
}
```
But unlike `struct`, where the fields are private by default, the variants of a public enum are public by default, so you do not need to put `pub` before each variant. This differs from Rust’s default-private rule because only public variants on a public enum are useful, while having some private fields in a `struct` does not affect its use.

But note that the **prerequisite** for **variants of an enum to be public** is that **the enum itself is declared public**.
