## 15.4.1 The Meaning of the `Drop` Trait
If a type implements the `Drop` trait, it can **let the programmer customize what happens when a value goes out of scope**. For example, releasing files or network resources.

In some languages, such as C/C++, programmers must write code to free memory or resources every time they finish using an instance of certain types. If they forget, the system may become overloaded and crash. In Rust, programmers can specify code to run whenever a value goes out of scope, and the compiler automatically inserts that code.

Any type can implement the `Drop` trait, and `Drop` only requires implementing the `drop` method, whose parameter is a mutable reference to `self`. `Drop` is in the prelude, so you do not need to import it manually. Take a look at an example:
```rust
struct CustomSmartPointer {
    data: String,
}

impl Drop for CustomSmartPointer {
    fn drop(&mut self) {
        println!("Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `{}`!", self.data);
    }
}

fn main() {
    let c = CustomSmartPointer {
        data: String::from("my stuff"),
    };
    let d = CustomSmartPointer {
        data: String::from("other stuff"),
    };
    println!("CustomSmartPointers created.");
}
```
- The `CustomSmartPointer` struct has a `data` field of type `String`.
- `impl Drop for CustomSmartPointer` implements the `Drop` trait for `CustomSmartPointer`. Inside it, we implement the `drop` method, whose parameter is `&mut self`. This method is usually used to release resources, but for demonstration purposes, it only prints a line and outputs the `data` field from `self`.
- In `main`, two instances of `CustomSmartPointer` are created: `c` stores `"my stuff"` and `d` stores `"other stuff"`. Finally, it prints `"CustomSmartPointers created."`.

Output:
```text
CustomSmartPointers created.
Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `other stuff`!
Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `my stuff`!
```
The program first prints the content of `println!` in `main`, which is `"CustomSmartPointers created."`. Because `c` and `d` go out of scope after the closing brace on line 19, the program then calls `drop` on `c` and `d` respectively. Since `drop` in this `Drop` implementation prints a line, both values print a line when they are dropped.

## 15.4.2 Using `std::mem::drop` to Drop a Value Early
Unfortunately, it is hard to disable automatic `drop` directly, and there is no need to do so. The purpose of the `Drop` trait is to handle cleanup automatically.

In addition, **Rust does not allow you to call the `drop` method of the `Drop` trait manually**. However, you can call the standard library function `std::mem::drop` to drop a value early, which is equivalent to calling the `drop` method of `Drop` early. Its parameter is the value to be dropped. Take a look:
```rust
struct CustomSmartPointer {
    data: String,
}

impl Drop for CustomSmartPointer {
    fn drop(&mut self) {
        println!("Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `{}`!", self.data);
    }
}

fn main() {
    let c = CustomSmartPointer {
        data: String::from("my stuff"),
    };
    let d = CustomSmartPointer {
        data: String::from("other stuff"),
    };
    drop(c);
    println!("CustomSmartPointers created.");
}
```
In `main`, we manually use `drop` to clean up `c`, while `d` is still dropped automatically. The output order should show `c` before `d`.

Output:
```text
Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `my stuff`!
CustomSmartPointers created.
Dropping CustomSmartPointer with data `other stuff`!
```

Some people may wonder: if `c` is dropped before it goes out of scope, will the compiler call `drop` again after it goes out of scope and cause a *double free* error? The answer is no. Rust’s design is safe. Its ownership system ensures that references are valid, and `drop` is only called once when the value is determined to no longer be used.
