# 13.6 Methods That Consume and Produce Iterators

## 13.6.0 Before We Begin
During its design, Rust drew inspiration from many languages, and functional programming had a particularly strong influence on Rust. Functional programming often includes passing functions as values to parameters, returning them from other functions, assigning them to variables for later execution, and so on.

In this chapter, we will discuss some Rust features that are similar to what many languages call functional features:
- [Closures](../13.1/13.1._What_Is_a_Closure_and_How_to_Use_Closures.md)
- Iterators (this article)
- [Improving the I/O Project with Closures and Iterators](../13.9/13.9._Improving_the_IO_Project_with_Closures_and_Iterators.md)
- [Performance of Closures and Iterators](../13.10/13.10._Performance_Comparison_-_Loops_vs_Iterators.md)

## 13.6.1 Methods That Consume Iterators
In the standard library, the `Iterator` trait has some methods with default implementations. Some of them call `next`, which is why **implementing the `Iterator` trait requires implementing `next`.**

Methods that call `next` are called *consuming adaptors* because `next` consumes the iterator one element at a time until the iterator is exhausted.

For example, the `sum` method takes ownership of the iterator and repeatedly calls `next` to traverse the items, thereby consuming the iterator. As it iterates, it adds each item to a running total and returns the total when iteration is complete.
```rust
#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    #[test]
    fn iterator_sum() {
        let v1 = vec![1, 2, 3];
        let v1_iter = v1.iter();
        let total: i32 = v1_iter.sum();
        assert_eq!(total, 6);
    }
}
```

## 13.6.2 Methods That Produce Other Iterators
The `Iterator` trait also defines other methods called *iterator adaptors*. They turn the current iterator into a different kind of iterator. You can also chain multiple iterator adaptors together to perform complex operations, and this style of code is quite readable.

Take `map` as an example. It takes a closure that is applied to each element of the iterator. It transforms each element of the current iterator into another element, and those new elements form a new iterator.
```rust
let v1: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
v1.iter().map(|x| x + 1);
```
This code adds 1 to each element in the `Vector`.

There is nothing wrong with the code itself, but the compiler produces a warning:
```
$ cargo run
   Compiling iterators v0.1.0 (file:///projects/iterators)
warning: unused `Map` that must be used
 --> src/main.rs:4:5
  |
4 |     v1.iter().map(|x| x + 1);
  |     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  |
  = note: iterators are lazy and do nothing unless consumed
  = note: `#[warn(unused_must_use)]` (part of `#[warn(unused)]`) on by default
help: use `let _ = ...` to ignore the resulting value
  |
4 |     let _ = v1.iter().map(|x| x + 1);
  |     +++++++

warning: `iterators` (bin "iterators") generated 1 warning
    Finished `dev` profile [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.06s
     Running `target/debug/iterators`
```
Because Rust iterators are lazy, if you do not consume them (that is, if you **do not call consuming adaptor methods**), they do nothing. In other words, in this state it does not add 1 to the three elements in the `Vector` unless a consuming method is called:
```rust
let v1: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
let v2:Vec<_> = v1.iter().map(|x| x + 1).collect();
```
Here `collect` is used as a consuming adaptor to collect the results into some kind of collection. Since `collect` can produce many collection types, we need to explicitly annotate `v2` as a `Vec<_>`. The `_` in `Vec<_>` tells the compiler to infer the element type.
