## 13.7.0 Before We Begin
During its design, Rust drew inspiration from many languages, and functional programming had a particularly strong influence on Rust. Functional programming often includes passing functions as values to parameters, returning them from other functions, assigning them to variables for later execution, and so on.

In this chapter, we will discuss some Rust features that are similar to what many languages call functional features:
- [Closures](../13.5/13.5._Iterators_-_Definitions,_the_Iterator_Trait,_and_the_Next_Method.md)
- Iterators (this article)
- Improving the I/O Project with Closures and Iterators
- Performance of Closures and Iterators

## 13.7.1 Using Closures to Capture the Environment
The `filter` method is an *iterator adaptor* that is usually used together with a closure that captures the environment.

The `filter` method takes a closure that returns a boolean value as it traverses each element of the iterator. If the return value is `true`, the current element will be included in the new iterator produced by `filter`; otherwise, the current element will not be included.

Take an example:

*Use `filter` with a closure to capture the `shoe_size` variable from the environment and iterate over a collection of `Shoe` struct instances. It will return only shoes of the specified size.*

```rust
#[derive(PartialEq, Debug)]
struct Shoe {
    size: u32,
    style: String,
}

fn shoes_in_size(shoes: Vec<Shoe>, shoe_size: u32) -> Vec<Shoe> {
    shoes.into_iter().filter(|s| s.size == shoe_size).collect()
}

#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    use super::*;

    #[test]
    fn filters_by_size() {
        let shoes = vec![
            Shoe {
                size: 10,
                style: String::from("sneaker"),
            },
            Shoe {
                size: 13,
                style: String::from("sandal"),
            },
            Shoe {
                size: 10,
                style: String::from("boot"),
            },
        ];

        let in_my_size = shoes_in_size(shoes, 10);

        assert_eq!(
            in_my_size,
            vec![
                Shoe {
                    size: 10,
                    style: String::from("sneaker")
                },
                Shoe {
                    size: 10,
                    style: String::from("boot")
                },
            ]
        );
    }
}
```
- The `Shoe` struct has two fields: `size`, which represents the shoe size and is of type `u32`, and `style`, which represents the style and is of type `String`.

- The `shoes_in_size` function takes two parameters: `shoes`, whose type is `Vec<Shoe>`, and `shoe_size`, whose type is `u32`, and it returns a `Vec<Shoe>`. The function body first calls `into_iter` on the incoming `Vector` to create an iterator that takes ownership. Then it uses `filter`, whose argument is a closure. The closure checks each element’s `size` field to see whether it matches `shoe_size`; if it does, the element is included in the new iterator. Finally, `collect` is called to turn the result into a collection and return it.
